#############
Version 4.7.3
#############

Release Date: Unreleased

**4.7.3 release of CodeIgniter4**

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3

********
SECURITY
********

- **Validation:** The ``ext_in`` file upload validation rule now validates the
  client filename extension and verifies that it matches the detected MIME type.
  Previously, ``ext_in`` only checked the MIME-derived guessed extension, so a
  file with a mismatched client extension could pass validation.
  See the `Security advisory GHSA-2gr4-ppc7-7mhx <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/security/advisories/GHSA-2gr4-ppc7-7mhx>`_
  for more information.

********
BREAKING
********

***************
Message Changes
***************

- The ``Cache.invalidHandler`` message string was added.

*******
Changes
*******

- **Commands:** The ``-h`` option for the ``routes`` command is renamed to ``--sort-by-handler`` to avoid conflict with the common use of ``-h`` as a shortcut for ``--help``.
  The old ``-h`` option will continue to work until v4.8.0, at which point it will be removed and repurposed as a shortcut for ``--help``.
  A warning message is displayed when using the old ``-h`` option to encourage users to switch to the new ``--sort-by-handler`` option.

************
Deprecations
************

**********
Bugs Fixed
**********

- **Autoloader:** Fixed a bug where ``Autoloader::unregister()`` (used during tests) silently failed to remove handlers from the SPL autoload stack, causing closures to accumulate permanently.
- **CLI:** Fixed a bug where ``CLI::generateDimensions()`` leaked ``stty`` error output (e.g., ``stty: 'standard input': Inappropriate ioctl for device``) to stderr when stdin was not a TTY.
- **CLI:** Fixed a bug where ``CLI::generateDimensions()`` leaked ``tput`` error output (``tput: No value for $TERM and no -T specified``) to stderr when the ``stty`` fallback was reached and the ``TERM`` environment variable was not set.
- **Commands:** Fixed a bug in the ``env`` command where passing options only would cause the command to throw a ``TypeError`` instead of showing the current environment.
- **Commands:** Fixed a bug in ``key:generate`` command where the regex used to locate the ``encryption.key`` line was fooled by a comment containing the substring (silently writing nothing), and did not handle DotEnv's ``export encryption.key = ...`` syntax.
- **Commands:** Fixed a bug in the ``serve`` command where the ``--host`` option was concatenated into the ``passthru()`` call without ``escapeshellarg()``, letting shell metacharacters in the locally-supplied argument be interpreted by ``/bin/sh``.
- **Common:** Fixed a bug where the ``command()`` helper function did not properly clean up output buffers, which could lead to risky tests when exceptions were thrown.
- **Database:** Fixed a bug where ``BaseConnection::listTables()`` could return a sparse array when using cached table names after a table was dropped.
- **Database:** Fixed a bug where the PostgreSQL driver's ``increment()`` and ``decrement()`` methods were not working for numeric columns.
- **Database:** Fixed a bug where the SQLSRV driver's decrement method was adding instead of subtracting the decrement value when ``$castTextToInt`` was false.
- **Config:** Fixed a bug where the app starter's ``zlib.output_compression`` guard rejected the valid disabled value ``Off``.
- **Entity:** Fixed a bug where ``Entity::normalizeValue()`` did not handle ``UnitEnum`` before checking for ``toArray()``, causing enums implementing ``toArray()`` to be incorrectly normalized as generic objects instead of enums.
- **Kint:** Fixed a bug where stale Content Security Policy nonces were reused in worker mode, causing browser CSP violations for Debug Toolbar assets.
- **Language:** Fixed a bug where ``Language::getLine()`` returned the literal dot-notation key instead of the nested array value when the requested key resolved to an intermediate array three or more levels deep.
- **Toolbar:** Fixed a bug where the Logs collector raised an undefined property error when using a third-party PSR-3 logger.
- **Time:** Fixed a bug where ``Time::createFromTimestamp()`` could fail for microsecond timestamps when ``LC_NUMERIC`` used a comma decimal separator.
- **Validation:** Fixed a bug where ``Validation::getValidated()`` dropped fields whose validated value was explicitly ``null``.
- **Worker Mode:** Fixed a bug where the ``frankenphp-worker.php`` template caused a ``Cannot redeclare class Config\Paths`` fatal error when FrankenPHP's watcher re-executed the worker script after a watched file changed.

See the repo's
`CHANGELOG.md <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md>`_
for a complete list of bugs fixed.
