#############
Version 4.7.4
#############

Release Date: Unreleased

**4.7.4 release of CodeIgniter4**

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3

********
BREAKING
********

***************
Message Changes
***************

*******
Changes
*******

************
Deprecations
************

**********
Bugs Fixed
**********

- **API:** Fixed a bug in Transformers where the root request's ``fields`` and ``include`` query parameters leaked into nested transformers created inside ``include*()`` methods, causing incorrect field filtering, unexpected includes, or infinite recursion.
- **Commands:** Fixed a bug where ``spark lang:find`` treated translation keys already provided by the framework or another namespace (such as ``Errors.*`` in ``system/Language``) as new, listing them under ``--show-new`` and writing untranslated placeholders into ``app/Language`` that overrode the existing translations.
- **Database:** Fixed a bug where ``updateBatch()`` could be called after Query Builder ``where()`` conditions, even though it's not supported. In this situation, now the ``DatabaseException`` is thrown.
- **Filters:** Fixed a bug in ``InvalidChars`` filter where invalid UTF-8 or control characters in array keys were not checked.
- **HTTP:** Fixed a bug where the User Agent library reported Safari's WebKit version instead of the browser version from the ``Version`` token.
- **Model:** Fixed a bug in ``Model::objectToRawArray()`` where the ``$recursive`` parameter was ignored.
- **Testing:** Fixed a bug where using ``MockInputOutput`` within a test that also uses ``StreamFilterTrait`` tore down the trait's stream filters, so CLI output produced after the ``MockInputOutput`` interaction (such as in ``tearDown()``) was no longer captured and leaked to the console.

See the repo's
`CHANGELOG.md <https://github.com/codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md>`_
for a complete list of bugs fixed.
